The 2019 Toyota Highlander ranks highly in the midsize SUV class largely on the strength of an excellent predicted reliability rating. It has an elegant and tranquil cabin and a powerful and efficient optional V6 engine, but it suffers from a small cargo hold and a tight third row.
The Toyota Highlander is an OK midsize SUV. A stellar predicted reliability rating helps the Highlander’s overall score, and it means you should be on the road more than you are at the mechanic. Like many Toyotas, this SUV comes with an impressive set of standard safety features.
The Highlander has an optional V6 engine that won't let you down, along with a quiet cabin and comfortable first- and second-row seats. However, shoppers in need of a sizable third-row seat or an abundance of storage space may be disappointed. The Highlander is definitely worth a look if you're shopping for a 3-row SUV, but be warned that the last row is pretty small. Passengers in the first two rows will ride in comfort with crowd-pleasing amenities that include five USB ports, tri-zone automatic climate control, and available Driver Easy Speak, which amplifies the driver's voice for rear-seat passengers.
That said, there are many rivals in this class that are just as appealing as the Highlander. This list includes the highly ranked Hyundai Santa Fe, which comes in both two- and three-row models, and the all-new Subaru Ascent. The second-generation Highlander was launched for the 2014 model year and underwent a midgeneration refresh for 2017. The 2019 Highlander receives an exterior refresh, but otherwise it’s similar to the 2017 and 2018 models. If you’re trying to save some money, have at look at these two model years. They come with a generous amount of standard safety features, have styling updates inside and out, and are available with a more powerful V6 engine than that found in 2014 through 2016 Highlanders.
If you are considering an older model, be sure to read our 2017 Highlander and 2018 Highlander reviews to help make your decision. Also check out our Used Car Deals page to learn about savings and discounts you can find on used cars.
Prices for the 2019 Toyota Highlander are about average for the midsize SUV class. The entry-level Highlander LE starts at $31,830. Prices jump to more than $35,000 if you equip the LE trim with a V6 engine and all-wheel drive. The Highlander XLE ($39,720) and the range-topping Highlander Limited Platinum ($46,050) both come standard with a V6 engine. For more information on prices and standard equipment, see the “Which Toyota Highlander Model Is Right for Me?” section below.
Caregivers will have one less hassle in their lives, as this SUV's child seat hardware is particularly user-friendly. LATCH hardware includes three tether anchors and two sets of lower anchors in the second row and one third-row tether anchor. The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety gave this system the highest rating of Good for ease of use. 
Toyota offers an appealing number of standard and optional tech features for the Highlander. Keep your family connected and charged with the available Driver Easy Speak PA system (which amplifies the driver's voice for rear-seat passengers) and five standard USB ports. A straightforward infotainment system is standard, and every model above the base trim comes with a responsive 8-inch touch screen and either a smartphone-linked or built-in navigation system. To keep children occupied on long road trips, consider investing in the optional rear-seat entertainment system.
The SE ($40,940) is the athletic edition. It comes with 19-inch alloy wheels, a sport-tuned suspension system, black leather-trimmed seats with silver stitching, and blue LED ambient lighting.

